Welcome to the breakdown where we breakdown
all the messed up movies!
Here it is, the House that Jack Built directed
by Lars Von Trier!
Also the director of Antichrist, a film that
is pretty classic in terms of being a well
known disturbing film!
The House that Jack Built is right up there,
showing a serial killer named Jack kill many
victims over the course of 12 years!
All the while, Jack is conversation with some
unseen figure named Verge, who basically makes
Jack look like a pretentious sicko.
Now before we get into the video, we do have
a word from our wonderful sponsor!
First lets have a word from our beautiful
sponsor, The Ridge Wallet!
Yall know..The entity that's been selling
some of the best minimalist products on the
market!
Which includes the titular Ridge Wallet.
Look guys, why is you still..using..a suitcase?
Like?
You know what suitcases share in common with
those wallets you have in your back pockets?
They both can get over-packed, they both can
get lost, and they both heavy as hell.
Look if you are sick of that, then you need
to check out the classic slick Ridge Wallet!
You got two metal plates held together by
a strong elastic band, and options of material
that include Titanium, Aluminum and Carbon
Fiber.
Plus you got plenty of colors to choose from
too!
Now this wallet is perfect for holding cash,
cards, ids, and guess what...
It blocks any RFID chip hacking in case your
cards have them.
So look, The Ridge Wallet is that five star
minimalist wallet that is perfect for holding
what you need and tossing the rest.
So if you're situation is comfortable right
now and if you do decide to order anything
from the Ridge Wallet website, you can get
free worldwide shipping and free returns,
Plus 10% off your purchase!
To get that, you gotta go to Ridge.com/SPOOKY
as you can see here!
At checkout, make sure you use the promo code
SPOOKY and then you're all good!
Again, Thanks for The Ridge Wallet for helping
us out today!
We are really grateful honestly!
Right so back to The House that Jack Built.
He's invited us in.
If you want to see what happens, including
all the messed up parts, stay tuned for the
breakdown!
Cue the GOHAN!
The movie starts off.....naw I just had to
say that for old times sake.
Throughout this entire film, the main character
Jack is having a conversation with an unseen
figure named Verge.
You'll get more context later but, they have
a very philosophical like conversation based
on Jacks ideals and crimes.
More likely then not though, Verge will often
sarcastically or bluntly disagree with Jack's
delusional thoughts.
Lets get into it now, it's the first incident.
Jack is riding around when a woman, the deadliest
woman in the world flags him down.
She needs a...Jack, her car broke down.
She need to get it fixed cuz she gotta go
Kill Bill.
Jack is very reluctant to help because he
wants to just go about his business but he
eventually agrees painfully to drive her to
Sonny's, a local blacksmith.
She's a very sardonic lady and jokes around
saying Jack looks like a serial killer.
She even tells him how she should kill her
and bury him.
Kind of rude to joke around like that but
its apart of her charm.
Despite fixing the jack, it breaks again when
they try to use it and she cries for him to
drive her back to Sonny's.
She's like I'm sorry about saying you're a
serial killer.
You're too much of a wimp to be one.
That didn't go well for Jack, and he kills
her with the Jack.
Its then that we get into more introspection
between Jack and Verge.
Jack often compares his murdering to art..Like
what serial killer doesn't now.
He owns a walk-in freezer where he has some
privacy and puts the woman's body inside.
He attempts to hide the ladies car despite
it being noticeable from the road, but sees
it as a stroke of genius because its out of
police jurisdiction at this point so no officers
will see it anyway.
So Jack often compares his murder to art,
and Verge isn't listening out of anything
more than interest.
He already has a dead set opinion that Jack
is a lunatic to put things short.
Here is the second incident.
All five happen over the course of 12 years.
Jack is watching an old lady walk home.
Dressed professional, he attempts to open
the door first but sees its locked.
He rings the doorbell and once she opens,
Jack awkwardly tells her he is the police.
Its like a sitcom how much he fumbles around.
She asks to see a badge though, something
he terribly explains away.
After seeing her past husband's memorial he
digs up a story saying he's really an insurance
agent who can increase her pension.
He said all that about being a police officer
was what they tell him to say when he knocks
on doors to tests the homeowners.
She's still kind of doubtful but if he can
increase her pension then she'll let him in.
Once inside he rambles on about having to
stand outside for so long.
She's on edge a bit too cuz she really wants
more money but apart of me thinks she knows
she messed up.
And mess up she did, and she is unsuccessful
strangled by Jack.
He has bad luck in strangling her.
She doesn't die right away so he makes her
drink water with donuts so she can choke.
She doesn't choke though and so he just strangles
her again and stabs her in the chest..ending
her painful grasps of air.
He takes pictures of her body before backing
up the van to put her inside.
He then covers up his tracks and makes sure
everything is clean.
See Jack has OCD, and cant stop the need to
go back in to clean up the place spotless.
He imagines random blood stains that aren't
actually there.
His compulsions keep him going back inside
many times and recleaning.
Soon he hears sirens in the distance and gets
in the car to race away.
Despite this, his compulsion tortures him
again even though police are coming.
Soon the police investigate the area after
having calls of a burglary, and an officer
discovers Jack in his van.
He hid the body before the officer came.
In the midst of a burlary investigation, Jack
uses it to pain the story that he is an old
friend of Claire the lady he killed.
According to Jack, he says he's been waiting
for 2 hours for Claire but no answer came
from knocking.
Jack is very eccentric, but I think it damn
near helps him get away from being suspected.
He ties the ladies body to his van while the
officer is inside.
The officer told him to leave.
He drives the van away dragging the woman
all the way back to his walk-in fridge building.
It literally leads a blood trail all the way
to his building.
Nature is on his side though because it so
happens to rain and wash away all the blood
trail.
The ladies body is basically destroyed too.
Jack knows he is a psychopath and usually
practices emotions in the mirror to fit in
with others.
Really Jack is getting the temptation to taunt
and see if he can be caught.
He went through his entire life getting away
from trouble, as well as fitting the criteria
of origins that serial killers have.
Anyway, Jack kills some girlfriend of his
one day.
She didn't know Jack was going to strangle
her and it's the result of practicing so much
that he could strangle her to death so easily
compared to last time.
He puts her in his fridge room too.
Sometime later he decides to take better pictures
of the dead bodies.
His compulsion to be clean and hidden dissolves.
He begins making more rash decisions like
running over a random old lady.
He brings both bodies back to his apartment
even when someone could notice him easily.
Some pictures he takes he sends to the local
newspapers.
Its where he coins his own serial killer name,
Mr Sophistication.
So back to Jack and Verge and their conversations.
Sometime later they talk about family and
Jack lights up because family has to do with
the third incident.
This is kinda disturbing so beware.
One day Jack has taken a current girlfriend
and her two kids George and Grumpy on a hunting
lesson.
Jack makes sure to pain a narrative that he
doesn't like killing animals unless its ethical.
He speaks so passionately about the activity
of hunting.
When its showing random clips that relate,
it means he is rambling and showing off his
knowledge of everything.
Anyway Jack helps George here shoot at a target
but things turn quickly.
Firstly, Jack explains the right way to kill
a deer.
Aim for the young, since a mother could live
without her young.
The young couldn't live without a mother.
So now that we know this, expect Jack to be
killing young.
Randomly we see the family hiding.
Jack has probably scared them into hiding
from him but he is posted and ready to use
his rifle.
Grumpy is so scared he runs away from his
mother.
You probably don't want to see this.
I'm serious close your eyes if you don't want
to see children die.
Grumpy has his whole leg shot in half.
The mother's reaction is pretty hard to listen
to.
Once George pops out Jack shoots him in the
head too and the mother is left exposed and
broken.
Jack soon places both children on a picnic
mat and forces her to feed her two dead children
some pie.
This is an excellent day he says.
He asks what her favorite number is, 12, and
that's how long she has to run away before
being shot.
She doesn't really run away though.
I understand completely honestly I wouldn't
blame her if she didn't even leave the mat.
Still she is shot and wounded.
She crawls away a little bit but Jack shoots
her again and ceases her sporadic breathing.
He then builds this little trophy parade.
Its not the worse part.
Get ready for child mutilation.
Jack uses wires and tools to change Grumpy's
face, and once rigor mortis sets in then he
removes the wires and tools... revealing Grumpy's
twisted face.
Imagine if Joker did this in the latest film
about him.Its something he would do and everybody
would go nuts.
The fourth incident.
Jack uses a crutch on his way to a girlfriends
home.
His girlfriend Jacqueline is insecure about
her relationship with Jack.
He usually calls her Simple because he believes
she's stupid, but he admits to caring for
her more than a psychopath should.
She's not that slow, not everybody needs to
know where tigers are.
He treats her cruel.
She asks what he does for a living and he
puts it in simple, easy to understand terms.
He kills.
He's killed 60 people.
Patrick Bateman admitted that too.
If someone admits that they are a serial killer,
step away.
Jack thinks she has nice breasts.
He uses a marker to circle around both like
an incision line.
Smartly she nonchalantly escapes the room
telling a police officer stationed outside
that her boyfriend is claiming to be a serial
killer and is weird.
The officer thinks she's drunk though and
Jack saying this doesn't help.
He played the drunk idiot and the police leaves
thinking it was just a drunk argument.
She believes his fake drunk disposition and
forgives him.
She's still a little suspicious I guess and
notices soon that she is locked inside her
room.
Not a big mystery on who locked it.
She noticed that he's not using his crutch
anymore, she don't seem so simple to me.
She even says that he must be Mr. Sophistication.
The daring Jack tells her to scream for her
life.
He even gives her some pointers.
Jack lets her scream out the window but Jack's
point is he doesn't care about her and neither
does anybody else.
He ties her up and makes her choose which
knife he will use.
He cuts right into her breast and slashes
both off which we don't see all the way gladly.
After she is dead he puts one of them on the
police officers windshield.
Jack and Verge soon talk about how Jack sees
himself above his victims.
Above women specifically.
He describes women as easier to use for art
but not because they might be smaller or whatever.
Again Verge questions all of Jack's egotistic
and pretentious speech.
No matter what Jack says to justify his murders
as art, Verge will often disagree entirely.
Jack also says something along the lines that
religion has turned humans into slaves who
deny the savageness they have inside.
Serial Killers also use these excuses.
By the way, Jack made the other breast into
a wallet.
The fifth incident.
Jack has kidnapped a man to add to his row
of 5 people tied together.
He's planning got shoot them all in the head
with one bullet.
A Full metal jacket bullet can do that, but
his latest victim sees that Jack has the wrong
bullet.
Jack is itching to make this murder perfect.
I'm sure he knows it might be his last and
he doesn't care about getting caught or dying.
He locks his fridge room and goes to his local
gun place only to create a tantrum on the
worker there.
He can't exchange bullets because Jack has
no receipt or ID on him.
After he leaves angrily the worker calls the
police.
Jack goes to an old friend of his named SP
to get a full metal jacket.
SP here instead holds Jack so the police can
arrest him.
Apparently the police are on to Jack about
a robbery he committed.
Jack uses their friendship as leverage to
manipulate him into putting the gun down,
and then kills SP with a knife to the throat.
He finds a single Full Metal Jacket bullet
and waits for the impending officer.
He switched clothes with SP, using the trick
to shoot the police officer to death and steal
his car.
He drives all the way back to his walk-in
fridge building with the siren blaring.
He wants the police to find him.
Anyway he is ready to kill all five people
with one bullet.
While aiming down the sights he notices its
too blurry which means he is too close.
The only way to get distance is to open this
door behind him, a door he hasn't been able
to open for 12 years.
He succeeds into opening the door today though,
and once he opens the door, we are only seeing
what is in Jack's mind.
We are a guest in his head.
He aims down at his victims and is ready to
shoot, until he hears a voice calling him
in the back.
Its Verge, our first time seeing him and Jack's
first time too.
I guess all those conversations were after
this event.
The police are right outside the building.
Verge asks Jack "wasn't you going to build
a house?"
All those attempts at building one on his
land was a failure in his eyes.
Verge influences him to use the materials
he has inside the walk-in fridge.
The dead bodies.
It would definitely take hours to do this,
time Jack shouldn't have because the police
were literally right outside before he started.
The house isn't real, but regardless this
is The House that Jack Built.
Verge leads Jack to follow him down a hole
inside the house, while the police are cutting
through the building to get in.
The police cut through and once they have
a whole in, a cop randomly aims his gun inside
the fridge and shoots twice..Both hitting
Jack's house, but the second bullet hits right
when Jack stumbles inside the hole.
We are seeing Jack's delusions right now,
so its likely the police busted in and shot
and killed Jack.
That's why he fell in so suddenly, like he
was shot.
Where is this place though?
You see Verge is actually a special guide.
Around 600 years ago, Verge guided Dante through
the levels of hell.
I haven't read the story in a while but this
scene is based on Dante's Inferno.
Verge is short for Virgil, the roman poet
who led Dante is now leading Jack.
They hear a strong ringing sound.
The louder it gets means the closer they are
to where Satan is I believe.
He is down in the lowest level.
They stop at a good afterlife.
The Elysian Fields.
Jack cries upon viewing an image that is something
he enjoyed during his childhood where he grew
up.
They make their way through the circles of
hell, and Verge takes him past where he should
actually be just to give him a tour.
They stand right over a broken bridge, and
below is the final circle of hell where the
most suffering happens, and where Satan sits
trapped.
The ringing sound is deafening.
Verge says he was actually supposed to deliver
Jack a couple circles up, which I take would
be the violence circle since that's where
most murderers go.
Jack asks what the path on the other side
of the bridge goes to.
Verge says it leads out of hell and up into
heaven.
Jack ponders that maybe you can Nathan Drake
across the walls to get to the other side.
Verge says you can climb over there if you
want, but nobody has every made it across.
And plus Jack you aren't even supposed to
be down at this level.
Verge says good bye to Jack as he climbs across.
He climbs pretty well until gets to the midpoint.
After some obvious trouble, Jack falls all
the way down to the worst part of hell..Doomed
to suffer forever.
Jack has hit the road!
So now that we've seen what happens, lets
talk about the most disturbed moment and most
enjoyed moment in that Spooky Stuff cue the
GOHAN!
So let's get right into it.
The most disturbed moment is probably the
Third Incident.
Seeing children murdered is always tough to
witness.
And the response of a mother towards the loss
of her children is always harrowing to view
and listen to.
Kinda like in Bedevilled.
The most enjoyed moment is the epilogue as
Virgil leads Dante through hell.
I liked how this entire scene was.
And overall it was satisfying seeing Jack
fall down.